1. How a Perfect Invoice Looks Like in the Indian Tax System (GST-compliant)
A GST-compliant invoice in India must include the following mandatory fields:

A. Seller Details:
Business Name

GSTIN (GST Number)

Address

Contact Information

B. Buyer Details:
Name

GSTIN (if registered)

Address

C. Invoice Details:
Invoice Number (unique & sequential)

Invoice Date

Place of Supply

Due Date (optional but preferred)

Reverse Charge (Yes/No)

D. Item Details (for each line item):
Description of Goods/Services

HSN/SAC Code

Quantity

Unit

Rate per unit

Total taxable value

Discount (if any)

Taxable value after discount

GST Rate (CGST + SGST or IGST)

CGST amount

SGST amount

IGST amount

E. Summary Totals:
Total Taxable Value

Total GST (CGST + SGST + IGST)

Grand Total (Invoice Value)

Amount in Words

F. Other Optional But Professional Elements:
Bank Account Details (for payments)

Terms & Conditions

Authorized Signatory with digital signature or name

QR Code (recommended for B2B invoices above ₹500 crores turnover)

✅ 2. Flaws & Feedback for the Prototype Chatbot
🔗 Prototype link

Here’s what Munim AI needs to improve:

🟠 A. Get User Inputs (Missing or Incomplete):
It should ask the user for all mandatory invoice fields, especially:

Buyer GSTIN

Place of supply (important for deciding IGST or SGST/CGST)

HSN/SAC code

Quantity & Rate for line items

GST rate selection

✅ Suggestion: Use a sequential Q&A flow or form to collect these details before generating the invoice. Don't assume fixed values.

❌ 3. Download Option Not Working
Your current prototype has a non-functional “Download” button — clicking it doesn’t download the invoice.

✅ Fix Suggestion:
Ensure that the invoice is converted to a PDF format before download.

Use a library like jsPDF or html2pdf in the frontend to export HTML as PDF.

For backend-generated invoices, set correct headers:

http
Copy
Edit
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="invoice.pdf"
Content-Type: application/pdf
✅ What to Say to the Chatbot Developers:
You can relay this short message to the dev team:

Message to Devs:

The chatbot is working decently but needs to collect more user input to generate proper invoices. It must ask for GSTIN, place of supply, HSN/SAC, quantity, rate, and GST % at a minimum. Also, the download feature is broken—please ensure the invoice is generated as a downloadable PDF, either via frontend tools (like jsPDF) or backend with correct headers.